Version 5.0.0
=============

A no-code editor for designing web application GUIs is here!
A code generator to produce a full web application from your
GUI designs and data model (class diagram) is now available!

New Features and Improvements
-----------------------------

**Web Modeling Editor**:

* Added support for creating and editing GUIs from a no-code visual editor (see :doc:`GUI modeling <../../web_modeling_editor/diagram types/gui_diagram>`).
* Added a new shape to create comments in plain text within diagrams.
* From project settings, you can choose if hide/show association names for class diagrams.
* When creating/updating class attributes, you can now directly select their visibility and datatype from dropdown lists.
* From the *File* menu, you can click *Preview Project* to get the JSON and B-UML representation of the current project.

**BESSER Low-code Platform**:

* GUI metamodel extended with
    * additional view components such as graphs (lineCharts, barCharts, pieCharts, etc.), tables, and forms.
    * events and actions to define user interactions and navigation flows between different pages and components.
* New code generator to produce a full web application from your GUI designs and structural model (class diagram). This generator produce:
    * Frontend code using React.js framework.
    * Backend code using FastAPI, with RESTful APIs to handle data operations based on the class diagram.
    * Database schema generation scripts using SQLAlchemy ORM.
* Added a parser to convert JSON GUI model (from the WME), to B-UML representation.

**Documentation**:

* Added guidelines about how to contribute to BESSER project.
* Documentation of the GUI metamodel updated.
* Added documentation about the new code generator for web applications.

Fixes
-----

* Fixed issue: `304 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER/issues/304>`_
* Fixed issue: `315 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER/issues/315>`_
* Fixed issue: `323 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER/issues/323>`_
* Fixed issue: `265 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER/issues/265>`_
