Version 5.3.0
=============

This release introduces enhancements to the table component in the GUI editor, reverse engineering capabilities from CSV files, and improvements to the React code generator with optimized conditional component generation.

New Features and Improvements
-----------------------------

**Reverse Engineering**

* Added **CSV to B-UML domain model conversion** functionality for reverse engineering class diagrams from CSV files.
* Introduced ``csv_to_domain_model()`` utility that automatically infers data types, detects foreign key relationships, and generates complete domain models with classes, attributes, and associations.
* Added endpoint for CSV file upload and conversion in the Web Modeling Editor backend.

**Table Component System**

* Refactored ``TableChart`` to **``Table``** component with columns support.
* Introduced flexible **Column architecture** with three specialized types:
    * ``FieldColumn``: Direct mapping to entity attributes
    * ``LookupColumn``: Display values from related entities via associations
    * ``ExpressionColumn``: Computed values using custom expressions (this special type of column is supported in the GUI editor, but not yet in the code generators)
* Enhanced table functionality with **action buttons** (view, edit, delete) for VRUD operations in the generated application.

**React Code Generator**

* Added recursive detection of nested components within ``ViewContainers`` to ensure all required components are generated.
* Implemented **unique table field name collection** across all nesting levels for accurate data binding.
* Enhanced ``TableComponent`` renderer to support:
    * Entity-based lookups with proper relationship handling
    * Enumeration fields with selection options
    * List-type lookups for complex relationships

**Backend REST API Generator**

* Fixed **many-to-many relationship queries** in ``get_all`` functions for accurate data retrieval.
* Corrected **one-to-many relationship handling** in statistics generation.
* Enhanced GET endpoints with **detailed lookups and eager loading** of relationships.
* Improved data fetching for tables with support for detailed lookups and relationship keys.

**Web Modeling Editor**

* Added CSV upload functionality for reverse engineering domain models directly from the editor interface.
* Enhanced GUI diagram support with improved table component modeling capabilities.
* Added support for page duplication in the GrapesJS editor.
