Version 5.5.0
=============

This release introduces significant enhancements to the **Backend Generator** with class method execution endpoints, and major improvements to the **React Generator** for dashboard components, chart data series modeling, and method execution buttons in the generated frontend.

New Features and Improvements
-----------------------------

**Backend Generator - Class Method Endpoints**

* Added automatic generation of **API endpoints for class methods** defined in B-UML models, enabling direct method execution via REST API calls.
* Implemented support for two types of method endpoints:
    * **Instance methods** (with ``self``): ``POST /{entity}/{id}/methods/{method_name}/`` - Execute methods on specific entity instances
    * **Class methods** (without ``self``): ``POST /{entity}/methods/{method_name}/`` - Execute class-level operations
* Added support for method parameters with automatic type inference for ``str``, ``int``, ``float``, ``bool``, ``date``, ``datetime``, and ``time`` types.
* Method execution captures ``print()`` output and returns it in the API response along with the method result.
* Automatic database session injection for methods requiring database access.

**Auto-Generated GUI from Class Diagrams**

* Added support for **automatic GUI generation directly from Class Diagrams**.
* For each class, the system now generates:
    * A navigation entry in the sidebar
    * A dedicated management page with a data table
    * Built-in create, edit, and delete actions
    * Action buttons for executing class and instance methods
* Generated pages include sorting, pagination, and integration with method execution workflows.
* Ensures consistency between the domain model and the generated frontend while significantly reducing manual UI configuration.

**Dashboard and Chart Component Modeling**

* Added a new ``Series`` class to represent data series in charts, enabling more structured and extensible chart definitions.
* Updated the ``Chart`` class to include a list of ``Series`` objects with appropriate property accessors.
* Enhanced chart rendering with support for multiple data series and improved data binding.

**Button and Method Execution Support**

* Extended the ``ButtonActionType`` enum with new action types for clearer semantics:
    * ``Navigate`` - Navigation actions
    * ``RunMethod`` - Execute class/instance methods
    * ``Create`` - Create new entities
    * ``Update`` - Update existing entities
    * ``Delete`` - Delete entities
* Refactored the ``Button`` class to support:
    * Direct method execution with configurable endpoints
    * CRUD operations with entity binding
    * Confirmation dialogs for destructive actions
    * Legacy button configuration compatibility
* Added new properties and accessors for method execution parameters and instance sourcing.

**React Code Generation and Serialization**

* Serialized method execution details in the React generator (endpoints, parameters, instance context).
* Updated the renderer to detect and render method buttons using the new ``MethodButton`` component.
* Added dynamic parameter forms and direct API execution with loading and error handling.
* Maintained support for both legacy and new method button configurations.
* Added templates for table filtering and sorting.

**Web Modeling Editor Enhancements**

* New sidebar for pages

Documentation
-------------

* Added comprehensive documentation for the Backend Generator's class method endpoints, including:
    * Complete API endpoint reference tables
    * Supported parameter types
    * Request/response format examples
    * Instance vs. class method usage examples

Fixes
-----

* Fixed type handling for ``time`` type in Pydantic class generation.
* Improved error handling in method execution endpoints with detailed error messages.
* Fixed serialization issues with nested method configurations in React code generation.
