Version 5.6.0
=============

This release introduces **OCL Constraint Validation** in the generated backend and frontend, 
along with improved error handling in React components and comprehensive documentation restructuring.

New Features
------------

**OCL Constraint Validation in Backend**

* Added automatic generation of **Pydantic field validators from OCL constraints** defined in B-UML models.
* OCL expressions are parsed using BESSER's ANTLR-based OCL parser and transformed into Python validation code.
* Supported OCL comparison operators: ``>``, ``<``, ``>=``, ``<=``, ``=``, ``<>``
* Supported value types: ``int``, ``float``, ``str``, ``bool``
* New utility module ``ocl_utils.py`` for OCL constraint parsing with fallback regex parser.

Example constraint:

.. code-block:: python

    constraint = Constraint(
        name="min_age",
        context=Player,
        expression="context Player inv: self.age > 10",
        language="OCL"
    )

Generated validator:

.. code-block:: python

    @field_validator('age')
    @classmethod
    def validate_age_1(cls, v):
        if not (v > 10):
            raise ValueError('age must be > 10')
        return v

**Frontend Validation Error Display**

* **TableComponent**: Now displays backend validation errors (HTTP 422) in a red box inside the form modal.
* **TableComponent**: Modal stays open on errors so users can fix and retry without re-entering data.
* **MethodButton**: Improved error handling for HTTP 500 errors with detailed error message extraction.
* **MethodButton**: Modal stays open on errors for methods with parameters.
* Error messages are parsed from FastAPI/Pydantic response format and displayed in user-friendly format.

Improvements
------------

**Documentation Restructuring**

* Reorganized ``generators.rst`` with generators grouped by category:
    * Web Application (Full Web App as primary entry)
    * Frameworks & Languages
    * Data & API
    * Machine Learning
    * Quantum Computing
    * Agents
* Enhanced ``full_web_app.rst`` as the main Web App Generator documentation with:
    * Sub-generator dropdown (backend, pydantic, alchemy, rest_api)
    * Features section covering methods, OCL validation, error handling
    * REST API endpoints summary
* Added OCL Constraint Validation section to Pydantic Generator documentation.

**Test Suite**

* Added 50 new tests for OCL constraint validation:
    * ``test_ocl_utils.py``: 35 unit tests for OCL parsing
    * ``test_ocl_pydantic_integration.py``: 15 integration tests for runtime validation


Files Changed
-------------

**Backend**

* ``besser/generators/pydantic_classes/ocl_utils.py`` (NEW)
* ``besser/generators/pydantic_classes/pydantic_classes_generator.py``
* ``besser/generators/pydantic_classes/templates/pydantic_classes_template.py.j2``

**Frontend Templates**

* ``besser/generators/react/templates/src/components/table/TableComponent.tsx.j2``
* ``besser/generators/react/templates/src/components/MethodButton.tsx.j2``

**Tests**

* ``tests/generators/backend/test_ocl_utils.py`` (NEW)
* ``tests/generators/backend/test_ocl_pydantic_integration.py`` (NEW)

**Documentation**

* ``docs/source/generators.rst``
* ``docs/source/generators/full_web_app.rst``
* ``docs/source/generators/pydantic.rst``
