Version 6.0.1
==============

Fixes for chart data binding with nested fields, series colors, and GUI code generation.

Bug Fixes
=========

Chart Data Binding for Nested Fields
-------------------------------------

- All chart types (LineChart, BarChart, PieChart, RadarChart, RadialBarChart) now support 
  dot notation for nested fields (e.g., ``measures.value``).

- Added ``getNestedValue()`` helper to access nested properties and handle arrays within paths.

- Charts automatically transform nested data to ``{ name: ..., value: ... }`` format for Recharts.

- **Renderer.tsx** detects nested fields and appends ``?detailed=true`` to API requests.

Series Color & Filter
---------------------

- Series colors from the UI editor are now preserved in generated code via the ``Styling`` class.

- Added ``filter_expression`` property to ``DataBinding`` for storing filter strings from series configuration.

- Removed duplicate raw ``attributes.series`` from JSON output.

GUI Diagram Code Generation
-----------------------------

- Fixed ``web_app`` generator invocation from the GUI No-Code editor.
- Users can now generate web apps directly without "No diagram available" errors.

Technical Notes
===============

- All five chart types support the same data binding and color preservation capabilities.
- Filter expressions are serialized to the output JSON but not yet enforced in the frontend.
- No breaking changes - existing charts work as before.

Migration Guide
===============

If using complex models to work around missing nested data, you can now simplify to use 
dot notation directly (e.g., ``category.name``, ``measures.value``).
