Version 6.4.0
=============

This release introduces RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) support for agents, optional configurational attributes with default values, and a new
JSON object generator.

New Features
-------------

**RAG Support for Agents**

- New metamodel classes: ``RAG``, ``RAGVectorStore``, ``RAGTextSplitter``, and
  ``RAGReply`` action type for retrieval-augmented generation pipelines.
- The ``Agent`` class now supports a ``rags`` list and a ``new_rag()`` factory
  method with duplicate-name validation.
- The BAF agent template generates Chroma vector store setup, LangChain text
  splitter configuration, and ``session.run_rag()`` calls.
- RAG data directories with placeholder READMEs are created during generation.
- Full round-trip support in JSON-to-BUML and BUML-to-JSON converters.

**Optional Attributes and Default Values**

- ``Property`` now supports ``is_optional`` (bool) and ``default_value`` (Any)
  parameters, closing #428 and #429.
- Propagated to all relevant generators:

  - **Pydantic**: optional attributes render as ``Optional[T]`` with defaults.
  - **SQLAlchemy**: optional attributes render as ``Mapped[Optional[T]]`` with
    ``nullable=True`` and default values.
  - **React**: form serialization respects ``is_optional`` for required-field
    logic and renders ``defaultValue``.
  - **Python classes**: default values are now type-aware (strings quoted,
    non-strings rendered bare).

- JSON-to-BUML and BUML-to-JSON converters handle ``isOptional`` and
  ``defaultValue`` for class diagram attributes.
- BUML code builders emit ``is_optional`` and ``default_value`` when
  serializing properties.

**LLM Reply Prompts**

- ``LLMReply`` now accepts an optional ``prompt`` parameter for injecting a
  system prompt into LLM calls.
- ``RAGReply`` also supports an optional ``prompt`` parameter.
- Agent and user profile context is injected into LLM states during generation.

**Intent Descriptions**

- Intents now support a ``description`` field, passed through the metamodel,
  converters, and code builders.

**JSON Object Generator**

- New ``JSONObjectGenerator`` converts ``ObjectModel`` instances into JSON
  documents with proper handling of datetime, enumeration, and collection types.
- Registered in the web editor backend as ``"jsonobject"`` with category
  ``"object_model"``.


**Agent Template Improvements**

- Major rewrite of ``baf_agent_template.py.j2`` with reusable Jinja2 macros
  (``render_intents()``, ``render_state_bodies_and_transitions()``).
- LLM intent classification configuration support from the config dictionary.
- Config template (``baf_config_template.py.j2``) replaced with a
  comprehensive static INI structure covering all platform sections (WebSocket,
  Telegram, GitHub, GitLab, A2A, NLP, DB, Streamlit).

Fixes
------

- Fix #428: Added ``is_optional`` attribute support to property definitions.
- Fix #429: Added ``default_value`` support for class attributes.
- **BUML-to-JSON converter** — Enhanced attribute mapping for classes and
  abstract classes.
- **Object diagram converter** — Improved attribute info with type, default
  value, and visibility; supports ``AbstractClass`` in reference maps.
- **React generator** — Fixed double-brace escaping for inline JSX style
  objects in input field components.
- **Python classes template** — Default values are now type-aware: string
  defaults are quoted, non-string defaults (int, float, bool) are rendered
  without quotes.
- **REST API template** — Added guards for methods without a body definition,
  preventing Jinja2 errors during generation; fixed default value quoting for
  method parameters.
- **JSON schema generator** — Translated docstrings from Spanish to English.
- **Text parser** — ``sanitize_text()`` now escapes single quotes with
  backslash instead of replacing them with spaces.
- Fix #433: **Quantum Editor** — Fixed gate placement offset from mouse cursor
  in Quantum Function editor.
- Fix #437: **Web App UI builder** — Fixed typing cursor in text components
  resetting to start after a few seconds of inactivity.
- Fix #398: **Object Diagram** — Fixed validation error when entering DateTime
  values for attributes.
- Fix #410: **Python classes / REST API generators** — Class method parameters
  now correctly support default values with type-aware quoting.
- Fix #432: **REST API generator** — Class methods (static methods without
  ``self``) now have their body embedded in the generated endpoint, fixing
  non-functional method execution.
- Fix #407: **Agent generator**  Adding custom python code doesn't break the agent generation.

**Web Modeling Editor Fixes** (`BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR>`_)

- Fix WME#18: **Agent Diagram** — Fixed reversed text display, missing live
  preview, and text wrapping issues in AgentState code blocks.
- Fix WME#46: **GUI Editor** — Buttons can now be linked to methods inherited
  from abstract parent classes.
- Fix WME#47: Removed redundant home icon from the editor toolbar (logo already
  links to home page).

Breaking Changes
-----------------

- Generated agent code now uses ``reply_llm`` as the LLM variable name instead
  of ``gpt`` or ``hf_llm``. Previously generated agent scripts are not
  compatible with the new generator output.
- The BAF config template now renders a static INI structure. Custom agent
  properties defined in the model are no longer dynamically rendered into the
  config file.
- ``sanitize_text()`` behavior changed from ``replace("'", " ")`` to
  ``replace("'", "\\'")``, which may affect downstream text processing.

 