Version 6.4.2
=============

This release adds agent model validation, classical intent classifier support, and improves the GitHub deployment pipeline.

Features
--------

**Agent Model Validation**

- Added ``Agent.validate()`` method that checks for state/intent name collisions and unresolved intent references in transitions.
- The ``/validate-diagram`` endpoint now runs agent-specific validation instead of returning a blanket success.

**Classical Intent Classifier Support**

- Agent template (``baf_agent_template.py.j2``) now generates ``SimpleIntentClassifierConfiguration`` when the intent recognition technology is set to ``classical``.
- Render deployment detects the IC technology and installs PyTorch CPU + scikit-learn only when classical IC is selected, keeping LLM-based deploys lightweight.

**Unresolved Intent Handling**

- When a transition references an intent not defined in the agent, the processor now creates a placeholder intent and wires the transition instead of silently dropping it. This ensures validation can report the issue.

Improvements
------------

**GitHub Deployment**

- Repositories created via deploy now get metadata: description, homepage link to the BESSER editor, and topic tags (``besser``, ``low-code``, ``model-driven``, etc.).
- Added ``GitHubService.update_repository()`` method for setting description, homepage, and topics.
- Improved README template with badges, deploy button, and a cleaner layout.
- Agent config resolution now checks ``agentConfig`` at the project level in addition to diagram-level and settings-level config.

**Pinned Backend Dependencies**

- Generated ``requirements.txt`` in Docker files now uses pinned versions (``==``) instead of minimum versions (``>=``) for reproducible builds.

Removed
-------

- Removed ``.github/workflows/deploy-wme.yml`` (EC2 deployment workflow).
