Version 6.4.4
=============

Self-association fix extended to all remaining code generators, structural metamodel improvements and fixes.

Bug Fixes
---------

**Self-Association Support for All Generators** (`#441 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER/issues/441>`_)
- Extended the self-association fix (introduced in v6.4.3 for Java) to the Pydantic, REST API (FastAPI), and Django generators.
- All generators now correctly detect when both ends of an association point to the same class and generate fields for both ends using role names.
- Added dedicated test suites for each fixed generator.

**Structural Metamodel Fixes**
- Fixed ``timestamp`` type hints from ``int`` to ``datetime`` across all metamodel class constructors.
- Fixed ``AnyType`` to use ``PrimitiveDataType`` instead of ``DataType``, consistent with all other primitive types.
- Fixed ``Enumeration.add_literal()`` to correctly set ``literal.owner`` on the added literal.
- Fixed ``test_package_initialization`` test that was incorrectly nested and never executed.

Improvements
------------

**DomainModel API Enhancements**
- Added ``remove_type(type_)`` method to remove a type from the model.
- Added ``remove_generalization(generalization)`` method to remove a generalization and clean up references in involved classes.
- Added ``add_constraint(constraint)`` and ``remove_constraint(constraint)`` methods for constraint management.

**Docstring Cleanups**
- Fixed duplicate docstring entries in ``Class`` attributes.
- Fixed duplicate sentence in ``Model`` docstring.
- Fixed setter docstrings incorrectly saying "Get" instead of "Set" for ``packages`` and ``constraints``.
- Fixed ``Multiplicity`` docstring indentation and incorrect "Inherited from NamedElement" reference.
- Removed unused ``from os import name`` import.
