REST API Generator
==================

BESSER offers a code generator for `REST API <https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/api/what-is-a-rest-api>`_ utilizing the `FastAPI framework <https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/>`_. 
This tool automatically transforms classes and relationships defined in a :doc:`../buml_language/model_types/structural` into a RESTful service.

Let's generate the code for the REST model of our :doc:`../examples/library_example` structural model example. 
You should create a ``RESTAPIGenerator`` object, provide the :doc:`../buml_language/model_types/structural`, and use the ``generate`` method as follows:

.. code-block:: python
    
    from besser.generators.rest_api import RESTAPIGenerator
    
    rest_api = RESTAPIGenerator(model=library_model, http_methods=["GET", "POST", "PUT", "PATCH", "DELETE"], backend=False)
    rest_api.generate()

Parameters
----------

- ``model``: The input B-UML structural model (required).
- ``http_methods``: List of HTTP methods to generate (default: ``["GET", "POST", "PUT", "PATCH", "DELETE"]``).
- ``backend``: When ``True``, generates ``main_api.py`` suitable for :doc:`BackendGenerator <backend>` integration instead of standalone ``rest_api.py`` (default: ``False``).
- ``port``: Port number for the generated FastAPI app (optional).
- ``output_dir``: Output directory (default: ``output/`` in the current directory).

.. note::
   **REST API vs. Backend Generator**: The REST API generator produces API endpoints and Pydantic
   models only. The :doc:`Backend generator <backend>` builds on top of this by also generating
   SQLAlchemy ORM models and database setup. Use the REST API generator when you only need
   API scaffolding; use the Backend generator when you need a complete backend with database.

Output Files
------------

The generator creates two files in the output directory:

- ``rest_api.py`` (or ``main_api.py`` when ``backend=True``): FastAPI application with CRUD endpoints for each class.
- ``pydantic_classes.py``: Pydantic validation models generated by the :doc:`Pydantic generator <pydantic>`.

The generated output for the library example is shown below.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../tests/BUML/metamodel/structural/library/output/rest_api.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:


When you run the code generated, the OpenAPI specifications will be generated:

.. code-block:: json

   {
   "openapi": "3.1.0",
   "info": {
       "title": "FastAPI",
       "version": "0.1.0"
   },
   "paths": {
       "/author/": {
           "get": {
               "tags": [
                   "author"
               ],
               "summary": "Get Author",
               "operationId": "get_author_author__get",
               "responses": {
                   "200": {
                       "description": "Successful Response",
                       "content": {
                           "application/json": {
                               "schema": {
                                   "items": {
                                       "$ref": "#/components/schemas/Author"
                                   },
                                   "type": "array",
                                   "title": "Response Get Author Author Get"
                               }}}}}}}}}

.. note::
   The full OpenAPI specification is available at ``http://localhost:8000/docs``
   when you run the generated FastAPI application with ``uvicorn rest_api:app``.

        