Version 7.0.0
=============

Major release: redesigned web editor, AI-powered modeling assistant, modular backend architecture, expanded metamodel styling, multi-diagram projects, and comprehensive security hardening.

Highlights
----------

- **New Web Modeling Editor UI**: Complete frontend rewrite with modern stack (Vite, Tailwind CSS, Radix UI, Redux Toolkit).
- **AI Modeling Assistant Enhanced**: Major upgrade to the conversational AI assistant with 2 new diagram types, voice input, file conversion, code generation triggering, deterministic layout engine, and multi-step orchestration.
- **Backend Architecture Refactor**: Monolithic backend decomposed into modular routers, middleware, and services.
- **Multi-Diagram Projects**: First-class support for multiple diagrams of the same type within a project.
- **Security Hardening**: CSP headers, encrypted OAuth sessions, request size limits, code injection prevention.

New Features
------------

**Redesigned Web Modeling Editor** (`BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR>`_)

The web editor frontend has been completely rewritten with a modern tech stack, replacing the legacy Apollon-based webapp. This is not just a reskin -- the entire application shell, navigation, project management, and user experience have been rebuilt from scratch with a focus on usability, accessibility, and performance.

*Application shell and navigation:*

- Ground-up rewrite using Vite 7, Tailwind CSS 3, Radix UI, and Redux Toolkit.
- Collapsible sidebar with diagram type navigation, content indicators (green dot for diagrams with content), and tooltip labels.
- Mobile-responsive layout with hamburger menu and slide-in drawer for tablet/narrow windows (the old editor was unusable below 768px).
- Dark/light theme toggle with CSS custom properties and consistent design tokens across the entire UI.

*Command palette and keyboard shortcuts:*

- Command palette (``Ctrl+K``/``Cmd+K``) with fuzzy search across all editors, navigation, and actions -- power users can perform any action in 2-3 keystrokes.
- Keyboard shortcuts dialog (``?`` or ``Ctrl+/``) listing all shortcuts organized by category with platform-aware key labels (Cmd on Mac, Ctrl on Windows).

*Multi-diagram project management:*

- Multi-diagram tabs: multiple diagrams per type with add/remove/rename (double-click), cross-diagram references, broken reference detection with warning indicators, and collapsible "Linked Diagrams" panel.
- Redesigned Project Hub with multi-step flow (create, import, open from spreadsheet), inline form validation, drag-and-drop file import, and project metadata display (size, diagram count, date).
- Template library with category browsing (20+ templates across Class, Agent, State Machine, Quantum Circuit), card-based selection, and conflict detection when loading into existing diagrams ("Replace" or "New tab").
- Project-level BUML export and JSON preview.
- Cross-tab synchronization prevents data loss when the editor is open in multiple browser tabs.

*Error handling and loading states:*

- Application-level and per-editor error boundaries -- an unhandled error in one editor no longer crashes the whole app (the old editor showed a blank white screen).
- Skeleton loading screens matching the final editor layout instead of blank screens or spinners during lazy loading.
- Code generation progress overlay with animated 3-step indicator ("Parsing diagram...", "Generating code...", "Packaging output...") instead of appearing to hang.
- Offline connectivity banner with automatic reconnection notification.

*Export and import:*

- Unified export dialog with two-column layout: multi-diagram export (select specific types, JSON or B-UML) and single-diagram export (SVG, PNG white, PNG transparent, JSON, B-UML).
- Import from 6 sources: JSON files, Python/B-UML files, images via OpenAI, knowledge graphs via OpenAI, GitHub URLs, and spreadsheets/CSV.
- GitHub B-UML import: paste a GitHub URL to fetch and convert a B-UML model directly.

*User experience improvements:*

- Global confirm dialog replaces all native ``window.confirm()`` calls with styled, accessible dialogs matching the design system.
- Systematic form validation framework with touch-based error display (errors shown on blur, not while typing).
- Illustrated help guide with per-diagram-type instructions, screenshots, and best practices (Class, Object, State Machine, Agent, GUI, Quantum).
- User feedback dialog with satisfaction rating, category selection, and free-text input.
- About dialog with links to all BESSER repositories.
- Storage quota monitoring and migration utilities for seamless upgrades.
- Lazy loading throughout for optimal initial load performance.

*AI Modeling Assistant integration:*

- Floating chat widget with WebSocket connection to the modeling agent.
- Voice message support (audio recording in the browser).
- File attachment support (up to 10MB).
- Rate limiting (8 requests/min, 40/hour).
- Streaming AI responses with typing indicator.
- Quick action chips for contextual follow-up suggestions.
- Connection status indicator (connected/connecting/disconnected).
- Privacy disclaimer dialog.

*Testing and analytics:*

- Playwright E2E tests covering class diagram interactions, navigation, project management, settings, and theme switching.
- Vitest unit tests for components and hooks.
- Privacy-respecting PostHog analytics (lazy-loaded, DNT respected, opt-out by default) with cookie consent banner.
- Sentry error tracking.

*Significantly improved (existed before, enhanced in the new UI):*

- GitHub OAuth integration with repository creation and Render deployment -- redesigned deployment flow with commit messages, repo privacy settings, star/unstar from the UI, commit history browsing, and version restoration.
- GUI No-Code Editor (GrapesJS) -- enhanced with new dashboard widgets (BarChart, LineChart, PieChart, RadarChart, RadialBarChart, Map, MetricCard, Table via Recharts), class diagram data binding, series manager for chart configuration, multi-page support, and agent component embedding.
- Quantum Circuit Editor -- improved gate palette with extensive gate categories (half/quarter/eighth turns, rotation, logic, swap, arithmetic, QFT, function, display, input, probes, sampling, scalar gates), nested circuit modal for composable sub-circuits, undo/redo, copy/paste, gate resize, and initial qubit state cycling.
- Code generation UI for 13 generators -- new per-generator configuration dialogs (Django project/app name, SQL/SQLAlchemy dialect selection, Agent language/personalization modes, Qiskit backend/shots, WebApp pre-generation checklist).
- Agent configuration panels with technology settings, LLM provider/model selection, interface styling, voice configuration, avatar configuration, personalization mapping, and rule-based personalization engine with JSON export.

**AI Modeling Assistant -- Major Upgrade** (`modeling-agent <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/modeling-agent>`_)

The modeling agent (previously supporting Class, Object, State Machine, and Agent diagrams with basic creation in v1.0.0) has been significantly enhanced with new diagram types, new capabilities, and a complete architecture overhaul. See the `modeling-agent v2.0.0 release notes <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/modeling-agent>`_ for full details.

*New diagram types:*

- GUI No-Code diagram support (metric cards, action buttons, charts, navigation, sample data generation).
- Quantum Circuit diagram support (gate symbols, qubit management, circuit operations).

*New capabilities:*

- Voice input via OpenAI Whisper speech-to-text.
- File conversion: PlantUML, RDF/OWL/TTL knowledge graphs, images, and PDFs converted to diagram specifications.
- Code generation triggering for 15+ BESSER generators (Django, Python, Java, SQL, WebApp, Qiskit, etc.) plus export and deploy.
- Multi-step orchestration decomposes compound requests (e.g., "create a library system and generate Django code") into sequential operations across diagram types.
- Deterministic layout engine with collision avoidance replaces random positioning; LLM produces only semantic content.
- Conversation memory with sliding-window and optional LLM summarization.
- Context-aware suggestions after each action based on current project state.
- Confirmation flows before replacing existing diagrams.
- "Describe my diagram" intent for explaining the current canvas.
- Token and cost tracking per session.
- Domain pattern library with pre-built templates for common system types.

*Enhanced existing capabilities:*

- Model modification expanded from Class-only to all 6 diagram types.
- Intent recognition overhauled with pattern-based cross-validation (3 new intents: generation, describe model, workflow).
- Pydantic-enforced structured outputs for all diagram types eliminate manual JSON parsing.
- Architecture restructured from flat files into modular ``src/`` package with clear separation of concerns.
- Built on BESSER Agentic Framework (BAF) v4.3.1 with OpenAI ``gpt-4.1-mini``.

**Modular Backend Architecture**
- Decomposed monolithic ``backend.py`` (~1900 lines) into focused modules (~270 lines remaining).
- ``routers/generation_router.py``: All code generation endpoints.
- ``routers/conversion_router.py``: BUML import/export, CSV reverse engineering, image-to-model.
- ``routers/validation_router.py``: Diagram validation endpoints.
- ``routers/deployment_router.py``: GitHub deployment and Docker integration.
- ``routers/error_handler.py``: Centralized ``@handle_endpoint_errors`` decorator mapping custom exceptions to HTTP status codes.
- ``middleware/request_logging.py``: Structured request logging with UUID-based ``X-Request-ID`` headers, performance timing, and slow-request warnings (>1s).
- ``services/cleanup.py``: Background task removing temp directories older than 24 hours, runs hourly.
- ``services/exceptions.py``: Custom exception hierarchy (``ConversionError``, ``ValidationError``, ``GenerationError``, ``DeploymentError``).
- ``models/responses.py``: Typed Pydantic response models replacing ad-hoc dict responses.
- ``constants/constants.py``: Centralized API constants, generator defaults, CORS origins, relationship type mappings.

**Multi-Diagram Project Support**
- ``ProjectInput.diagrams`` supports multiple diagrams per type (``Dict[str, List[DiagramInput]]``).
- ``currentDiagramIndices`` tracks the active diagram per type.
- Per-diagram ``references`` for stable cross-diagram linking by ID (resilient to deletions and reordering).
- Backward compatible: old single-diagram format auto-converts via Pydantic model validator.

**Security Enhancements**
- ``SecurityHeadersMiddleware``: Adds ``X-Content-Type-Options``, ``X-Frame-Options``, ``Referrer-Policy``, ``Content-Security-Policy``, ``Strict-Transport-Security``, and ``Permissions-Policy``.
- ``RequestSizeLimitMiddleware``: Rejects requests >50MB.
- CORS hardened from wildcard ``*`` to configurable whitelist via ``CORS_ORIGINS`` environment variable.
- Encrypted file-based OAuth session store using Fernet encryption with TTL expiration.
- ``_escape_python_string()`` utility prevents code injection in generated Python code that may be ``exec()``'d.
- ``safe_var_name()`` / ``safe_class_name()`` ensure generated identifiers are safe.
- Fixed SQL DDL generation vulnerability (double f-string interpolation).
- Removed Docker socket mount from ``docker-compose.yml``.

**New Generators Registered**
- RDF (``RDFGenerator``), REST API (``RESTAPIGenerator``), React (``ReactGenerator``), Flutter (``FlutterGenerator``), Terraform (``TerraformGenerator``).
- Conditionally registered: PyTorch (``PytorchGenerator``), TensorFlow (``TFGenerator``) -- only when their dependencies are installed.
- Added ``ClassAggregation`` to ``RELATIONSHIP_TYPES``.

**Expanded GUI Metamodel Styling**
- ``Size``: 18 new properties -- typography (``font_weight``, ``font_family``, ``font_style``, ``text_decoration``, ``text_transform``, ``letter_spacing``, ``word_spacing``, ``white_space``, ``word_break``), min/max dimensions (``min_width``, ``max_width``, ``min_height``, ``max_height``), per-side padding and margin.
- ``Position``: 11 new properties -- ``display``, ``overflow``, ``overflow_x/y``, ``visibility``, ``cursor``, ``box_sizing``, ``transform``, ``transition``, ``animation``, ``filter``.
- ``Color``: 14 new properties -- border details (``border_radius``, ``border_width``, ``border_style``, per-side borders), shadows (``box_shadow``, ``text_shadow``), background extras (``background_image``, ``background_size``, ``background_position``, ``background_repeat``).
- ``Layout``: 6 new flex-item properties -- ``flex``, ``flex_grow``, ``flex_shrink``, ``flex_basis``, ``order``, ``align_self``.
- ``ViewElement`` constructor now accepts ``component_id``, ``tag_name``, ``css_classes``, ``custom_attributes``, ``display_order`` as keyword arguments.
- ``GUIModel`` gains ``style_entries`` parameter for storing CSS style data.

**Structural Metamodel Validation**
- ``DomainModel.validate()`` now detects attribute shadowing in inheritance hierarchies.
- ``NamedElement.name`` setter rejects ``None`` and whitespace-only strings, warns on Python keywords.

**CI/CD Pipelines**
- ``.github/workflows/ci.yml``: Backend tests on Python 3.10/3.11/3.12, Ruff linting, and frontend lint+build.
- ``.github/workflows/security.yml``: Weekly CodeQL security scanning.
- ``.github/dependabot.yml``: Automated dependency updates (weekly for pip, monthly for GitHub Actions).

**Comprehensive Test Suite** (+5,635 lines)
- ``test_builders.py`` (1,317 lines): All BUML code builders.
- ``test_converter_roundtrip.py`` (1,277 lines): JSON-to-BUML-to-JSON round-trip tests.
- ``test_api_integration.py`` (1,082 lines): Backend API integration tests.
- ``test_parsers.py`` (559 lines): Attribute, method, multiplicity, OCL, and text parsers.
- New generator tests: BAF, JSON Object, Qiskit, React, Terraform, WebApp.
- Centralized test fixtures in ``tests/conftest.py`` and ``tests/generators/conftest.py``.

Bug Fixes
---------

- Fixed ``Processor.x86`` enum value from ``"x84"`` to ``"x86"``.
- Fixed ``Protocol.udp`` enum value from ``"UPD"`` to ``"UDP"``.
- Fixed ``LayoutType.SRACK`` typo to ``LayoutType.STACK``.
- Fixed ``Transition.__repr__`` crash when ``event`` is ``None``.
- Fixed ``Object.__getattr__`` recursive call during initialization.
- Fixed ``DataValue`` crash when ``name`` is empty string (generates fallback name).
- Fixed ``LLMIntentClassifierConfiguration.parameters`` mutable default argument (``{}`` to ``None``).
- Fixed ``venv/Script/activate`` typo to ``venv/Scripts/activate`` in documentation.
- Fixed Java template: ``protected`` changed to ``private`` for class attributes.
- Fixed Java template: ``java.time.UUID`` changed to ``java.util.UUID``.
- Fixed Pydantic generator regex: ``r"\\W"`` (escaped backslash) changed to ``r"\W"`` (non-word character class).
- Fixed Java generator: operator precedence bug in temp directory detection (``if 'tmp' or 'AppData' in path`` always evaluated to ``True``).
- Fixed ``utils.py``: type hint syntax from ``model_path= str`` to ``model_path: str``.

Improvements
------------

**Code Builders**
- All BUML code builders now use ``_escape_python_string()`` for safe string interpolation.
- ``safe_var_name()`` applied to state and intent names for generated variable references.
- ``gui_model_builder.py`` rewritten to support expanded styling properties and component metadata.
- ``project_builder.py`` rewritten for multi-diagram project format.
- ``agent_model_builder.py`` accepts ``model_var_name`` parameter for customizable output.
- Deterministic output: sorted set serialization in domain model builder.

**Converters**
- All JSON-to-BUML and BUML-to-JSON converters updated for multi-diagram project support.
- New ``state_machine_object_to_json()`` function for direct StateMachine object conversion.
- GUI converters support all expanded CSS properties.
- Parser error handling improved with descriptive ``ValueError`` exceptions.
- All ``print()`` statements replaced with structured ``logging`` calls.

**Generators**
- Django generator: Jinja2 environment consolidated (eliminated 8 duplicate ``Environment`` instances).
- Pydantic generator: generates ``Optional[...]`` types when ``multiplicity.min == 0``.
- React generator: supports all expanded CSS properties from the metamodel.
- Flutter generator: improved ``DateTimeType`` and ``DateType`` type mapping, ``print()`` replaced with logging.

**Deployment Services**
- GitHub OAuth uses encrypted session store instead of in-memory state.
- Docker deployment methods accept ``directory`` parameter instead of using ``os.chdir()``.
- Feedback service migrated from ``dict()`` to ``model_dump()`` (Pydantic v2).

**Documentation**
- New ``DEVELOPMENT_SETUP.md`` with complete setup guide.
- New ``docs/source/web_editor_backend.rst`` for backend API documentation.
- Updated documentation for generators, metamodel types, and contributing guide.

Breaking Changes
----------------

.. warning::

   This release contains several breaking changes. Review carefully before upgrading.

- **NamedElement.name validation**: Now raises ``ValueError`` for ``None``, empty, and whitespace-only names. Code passing these values to any ``NamedElement`` subclass constructor will break.
- **LayoutType.SRACK renamed**: ``LayoutType.SRACK`` is now ``LayoutType.STACK``. Code referencing the old name will raise ``AttributeError``.
- **GUI Style defaults changed to None**: ``Size``, ``Position``, ``Color``, and ``Layout`` classes now default most properties to ``None`` instead of concrete values (e.g., ``Size.width`` was ``"auto"``, now ``None``). Code relying on these defaults must be updated.
- **ViewElement.display_order type**: Changed from ``int`` to ``float``.
- **ProjectInput.diagrams type**: Changed from ``Dict[str, DiagramInput]`` to ``Dict[str, List[DiagramInput]]``. A Pydantic model validator provides backward compatibility for API consumers, but code directly accessing ``diagrams[key]`` as a single ``DiagramInput`` will break.
- **CORS policy**: Changed from wildcard ``*`` to an explicit origin list. Unlisted origins will be rejected. Configure via the ``CORS_ORIGINS`` environment variable.
- **Backend module structure**: All endpoint functions moved from ``backend.py`` to router modules. Code importing directly from ``backend`` will break.
- **Java generated code**: Class attributes changed from ``protected`` to ``private``.
- **z_index validation**: Now accepts ``None`` and negative integers (was non-negative only). This relaxes the constraint but changes the contract.
