Version 7.11.2
==============

Patch release: **B-UML export now keeps every object model in multi-object
projects**. A fix to the Python code builder so that exporting a class model
together with more than one object model no longer silently drops the object
models. No metamodel or API contract changes.

Highlights
----------

- **Multiple object models are no longer lost on B-UML** (``.py``) **export**:
  exporting a project that combined a domain (class) model with two or more
  object models produced a Python file that contained none of the object models,
  while exporting the same project to JSON was unaffected (`web editor issue #161
  <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-Web-Modeling-Editor/issues/161>`_).
  The root cause was in ``project_to_code``
  (``besser/utilities/buml_code_builder/project_builder.py``): the
  standalone-object loop only emitted a model when
  ``getattr(om, "domain_model", None)`` was truthy, but ``ObjectModel`` has no
  ``domain_model`` attribute, so the branch never ran — and the models were also
  omitted from the generated ``Project(models=[...])`` list. A single object
  model still worked because it took a separate one-to-one pairing path.
- **The fix** extracts the object-writing logic from ``domain_model_to_code``
  into a reusable ``object_model_to_code`` helper (``domain_model_to_code``
  output is byte-for-byte unchanged), and ``project_to_code`` now emits every
  standalone object model as an object-only section that references the domain
  classes already written earlier in the same file. A new regression test
  exports one domain model plus two object models and executes the generated
  file back into two ``ObjectModel`` instances.

No metamodel or API contract changes.

Thanks to `@rdegiovanni <https://github.com/rdegiovanni>`_ for the report
(`web editor issue #161
<https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-Web-Modeling-Editor/issues/161>`_).
