Version 7.1.0
=============

Bug fix and quality-of-life release: resolves 13 issues across BESSER, the Web Modeling Editor, and the Modeling Agent, with improvements to validation, deployment, GitHub sync, and the AI-assisted modeling experience.

Highlights
----------

- **Deserialization fix**: Pickle roundtrip for models with enumerations no longer crashes (`#490 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER/issues/490>`_).
- **SQLAlchemy reserved keyword handling**: Class names like ``List``, ``Table``, ``Column`` no longer collide with SQLAlchemy imports (`#489 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER/issues/489>`_, `PR #491 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER/pull/491>`_).
- **Agent validation at build time**: State/intent name collisions are caught early, preventing Render deployment crashes (`WME #101 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR/issues/101>`_).
- **GitHub sync improvements**: B-UML models stored alongside JSON, filename tracks project renames, cross-tab sync (`WME #99 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR/issues/99>`_, `WME #100 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR/issues/100>`_, `WME #93 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR/issues/93>`_).
- **Vibe modeling agent fixes**: Object name duplication, class rename artifacts, and deletion failures resolved (`WME #95 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR/issues/95>`_, `WME #96 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR/issues/96>`_, `WME #98 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR/issues/98>`_).
- **Validation improvements**: Real error messages shown instead of generic placeholders, multiplicity and enum checks added (`#487 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER/issues/487>`_).

Bug Fixes
---------

BESSER Core
~~~~~~~~~~~

- **Fix Enumeration deserialization recursion** (`#490 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER/issues/490>`_): ``Enumeration.__getattr__`` now uses ``object.__getattribute__`` to avoid infinite recursion during pickle deserialization -- same pattern as ``Object.__getattr__`` in v7.0.0.

- **Fix SQLAlchemy reserved keyword conflicts** (`#489 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER/issues/489>`_, `PR #491 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER/pull/491>`_): All SQLAlchemy imports aliased with underscore suffixes to prevent class name collisions. Added ``validate_model()`` with clear error messages. Added ``enum`` (lowercase) to reserved names.

- **Add enum value validation in object diagrams** (`#487 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER/issues/487>`_): ``ObjectModel.validate()`` now checks that enumeration attribute values are valid literals. Added completeness warnings for objects with no attributes.

- **Add multiplicity validation in domain model**: ``DomainModel.validate()`` now checks min/max multiplicity constraints on all association ends.

- **Fix validation error messages**: Validation router now passes actual error messages to the frontend instead of generic placeholders. Hyphens in association names, invalid multiplicities, and other construction errors now show specific details.

Web Modeling Editor Backend
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **Fix Render deployment crash with agents** (`WME #101 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR/issues/101>`_): ``process_agent_diagram()`` now validates at build time. GitHub deploy only processes agent diagrams when the GUI uses agent components.

- **Store B-UML models on GitHub sync** (`WME #100 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR/issues/100>`_): ``save_project_to_github`` and deploy endpoints now export ``domain_model.py`` and ``agent_model.py`` into a ``buml/`` directory alongside the project JSON.

- **Merge PR #102**: Type-specific input controls for attribute default values -- enum dropdowns, number inputs, date/time pickers, boolean dropdowns.

Web Modeling Editor Frontend
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **Fix vibe agent class deletion** (`WME #95 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR/issues/95>`_): ``removeElement()`` now throws an error when the target class isn't found, instead of silently returning the unchanged model.

- **Fix vibe agent object name duplication** (`WME #98 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR/issues/98>`_): Frontend strips ``: ClassName`` from objectName before concatenating. Modeling agent prompts and schema enforce proper instance naming.

- **Fix JSON filename on project rename** (`WME #99 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR/issues/99>`_): ``saveProjectToGitHub()`` derives the file path from the current project name at save time.

- **Fix GitHub cross-tab sync** (`WME #93 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR/issues/93>`_): Added ``storage`` event listener so linked repo state syncs across browser tabs.

- **Fix GUI table column overflow**: Added scrolling to columns manager panel when many columns are configured.

- **Fix composition relationships in GUI tables**: ``getEndsByClassId()`` now handles ``ClassComposition`` and ``ClassAggregation`` relationship types.

- **Update method behaviour tooltip** (`WME #94 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR/issues/94>`_): Changed from "Python code editor" to "code behaviour".


Documentation
-------------

- Added GitHub Integration section to the frontend user guide covering connecting, saving, loading previously synced projects, and commit history (`WME #92 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-WEB-MODELING-EDITOR/issues/92>`_).
