Version 7.12.0
==============

Minor release: **Ollama support for agents**. Agents built in BESSER and the Web
Modeling Editor can now use locally hosted `Ollama <https://ollama.com>`_ models —
both as the LLM provider and as the RAG embedding provider — end to end, from the
editor's agent-configuration UI through the BAF generator and the agent
converters. Additive only: no metamodel or API contract changes beyond the new
provider.

Highlights
----------

- **Ollama as an agent LLM provider**: a new ``LLMOllama`` wrapper joins the
  supported LLM suite (alongside OpenAI, Hugging Face and Replicate). In the Web
  Modeling Editor you can now pick *Ollama (local)* for an agent LLM and set its
  ``base_url`` (default ``http://localhost:11434``) and ``model``. The BAF
  generator imports ``LLMOllama`` and emits an ``nlp.ollama.base_url`` entry in the
  generated agent config, and the agent template instantiates it automatically.
- **Ollama as a RAG embedding provider**: RAG elements can now choose OpenAI or
  Ollama for embeddings, with dedicated base-URL and model fields in the editor.
  The generated agent wires up ``OllamaEmbeddings`` for Ollama-backed vector
  stores (importing only the embedding classes it actually uses). The choice
  round-trips through the agent converters (``json_to_buml`` ↔ ``buml_to_json``),
  covered by a new round-trip test.
- **Docs**: the agent-personalization reference now documents the ``ollama``
  provider, its ``ollamaModels`` recommendations, and the local ``base_url`` /
  ``model`` configuration.

Also in this release
--------------------

- **B-UML export round-trip** (backend): the multi-object exporter now writes a
  single numbered object-model banner, so re-importing a project that contains
  several object models yields exactly those models instead of extra empty ones
  (`web editor issue #161
  <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-Web-Modeling-Editor/issues/161>`_
  follow-up).
- **BPMN pools and lanes** (frontend, via the submodule bump): elements inside a
  BPMN lane/pool now move with their parent, and pools/lanes are preserved when
  the assistant injects a BPMN diagram (`WME #159
  <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-Web-Modeling-Editor/pull/159>`_).
