Version 7.1.6
=============

Minor release: **identifier story overhaul — ``is_id`` now flows end-to-end, new ``is_external_id`` concept introduced, PlantUML importer accepts more syntaxes**. This release closes four long-standing issues (#230, #225, #108, #236) and completes the propagation work begun in #486 / #478. The frontend submodule advances twice to expose the two new checkboxes in the attribute popup; SQL and Django generators now emit ``primary_key=True`` and ``unique=True`` correctly; a pre-existing whitespace bug in the Django models template that produced invalid Python is also fixed.

Highlights
----------

- **New ``Property.is_external_id`` concept (closes #230, closes #225, closes #108)**: B-UML now distinguishes the internal surrogate primary key (``is_id``) from the user-facing identifier(s) used to locate an object by name / email / SKU (``is_external_id``). A class may carry several external-id attributes forming a composite key, and a single property can be both ``is_id`` and ``is_external_id`` when a natural key also serves as the PK. The new flag threads end-to-end: ``Property.is_external_id`` in ``besser/BUML/metamodel/structural/structural.py`` with a setter that rejects ``is_external_id=True`` on an already-optional property (symmetric with the existing ``is_id`` constraint); JSON ↔ BUML round-trip via ``isExternalId`` in ``class_diagram_processor.py`` / ``class_diagram_converter.py``; ``domain_model_to_code`` emits ``is_external_id=True`` in generated Python so export / re-import preserves the flag. The SQLAlchemy generator (``helpers.py.j2``, ``sql_alchemy_template.py.j2``) emits ``unique=True`` on mapped columns when an attribute is marked ``is_external_id`` and is not the PK — addressing the long-deprioritized UNIQUE-attribute ask of #108 without inventing a separate ``is_unique`` flag. The Django generator (``django_fields.py.j2``, ``models.py.j2``) emits the same ``unique=True`` and, crucially for #225, prefers external-id attributes when generating ``__str__`` so ForeignKey dropdowns, admin list views, and ``{{ object }}`` rendering show a meaningful label (``isbn``, or ``first_name - last_name`` for composite keys) instead of the surrogate PK id. SQL generator inherits the UNIQUE constraint from SQLAlchemy automatically.
- **Completion of the ``is_id`` propagation work (#478)**: PR #486 by @EftychiaChours landed the metamodel validation and the JSON ↔ BUML round-trip for ``is_id`` but explicitly deferred the code builder, generators, and editor UI. This release finishes all three. ``buml_code_builder/domain_model_builder.py`` now emits ``is_id=True`` in generated ``Property(...)`` for both regular and association classes (without this, exporting a model to code and re-executing the file silently dropped the flag). The Django generator's ``django_fields.py.j2`` now emits ``primary_key=True`` on every field type when the BUML attribute is marked ``is_id``; the SQLAlchemy generator already consumed ``is_id`` via ``get_ids()`` and was verified intact. The editor UI gains an **ID** checkbox in the attribute style pane (symmetric with Optional / Derived), with a trailing ``{id}`` marker in the attribute display name and a constraint that ticking ID forces ``isOptional`` off in the same update.
- **More permissive PlantUML importer (closes #236)**: the PlantUML-to-BUML importer rejected three syntaxes that PlantUML itself accepts. The grammar (``besser/BUML/notations/structuralPlantUML/PlantUML.g4``) now accepts single-dash ``-`` as an association edge in addition to ``--`` (PlantUML's horizontal-layout shorthand), ``integer`` and ``boolean`` as primitive type aliases alongside ``int`` and ``bool`` (``string`` was already handled), and trailing ``<`` / ``>`` direction hints after an association label (``A - B : rel >``) which are pure rendering hints with no semantic meaning. The listener (``plantUML_buml_listener.py``) maps the new aliases through a lookup dict. Lexer / parser / listener regenerated with ANTLR 4.13.2 from the updated ``.g4``. Five regression tests cover the full repro from the issue plus the grammar deltas.
- **Django template whitespace bug fix**: a pre-existing bug in ``besser/generators/django/templates/models.py.j2`` caused the attribute for-loop to strip every newline, collapsing every attribute assignment onto the same line as the class docstring and producing invalid Python (``"""docstring"""    id = ... = ...    title = ...``). The old Django tests only compared substrings so the bug went unnoticed since generation. The fix removes the aggressive ``{%-`` whitespace strip on the loop opener; the new ``test_rendered_models_are_valid_python`` compiles the rendered output as a regression guard.
- **Frontend submodule advances twice**: ``besser/utilities/web_modeling_editor/frontend`` moves from ``c4252a6`` to ``b5102c0``, pulling in the two new attribute-popup checkboxes (ID and External ID) along with ``c50f6dc`` (attribute / method reordering in the class popup — landed independently on ``develop``).

Testing
-------

Eleven new tests cover the new behavior end-to-end: metamodel setter validation for ``is_external_id`` and its interaction with ``is_optional``; converter round-trip for both ``isId`` and ``isExternalId``; exec-based round-trip for the code builder; SQLAlchemy schema introspection plus a real ``IntegrityError`` when inserting duplicate external-id values against an in-memory SQLite engine; Django ``primary_key`` / ``unique`` emission and ``__str__`` behavior for single / composite / fallback external ids; and ``compile()`` validation of the rendered Django models. The PlantUML work adds five regression tests covering the full repro from #236. Full suite at 692 passed, 5 skipped, 3 xfailed — no regressions.

Follow-ups deliberately deferred
--------------------------------

- **React, Flutter, Java, Python-class generators**: would benefit from ``is_external_id``-aware list labels and ``__str__`` / ``toString`` methods but lower priority; track in follow-up issues if anyone asks.
- **REST / FastAPI generator**: alternate lookup endpoints keyed by external id (``/books/by-isbn/...``) need a design call, not a mechanical edit.
- **Pydantic and JSON Schema generators**: no PK concept exists in those schemas, nothing to do.
