Version 7.4.1
=============

Patch release: **internal cleanup ŌĆö drop the legacy ``packages/webapp`` and
rename ``packages/webapp2`` to ``packages/webapp``** in the Web Modeling
Editor frontend. No user-visible behavior changes, no API changes, no
metamodel changes ŌĆö this is a tidy-up that removes dead code and restores
the canonical package name.

Highlights
----------

- **Frontend monorepo simplification.** The legacy Webpack + Bootstrap
  ``packages/webapp`` package ŌĆö kept on disk "for reference only" since
  the v7 redesign ŌĆö is now removed. The active React + Vite + Radix UI app
  that previously lived under ``packages/webapp2`` is renamed to
  ``packages/webapp`` so the canonical workspace name reflects what users
  actually run. Build artefacts now land in ``build/webapp/`` instead of
  ``build/webapp2/``; the standalone ``packages/server`` reads from the
  new path directly (the legacy fallback was deleted).
- **Documentation sweep.** Every reference to ``webapp2`` across both
  repositories is now ``webapp`` ŌĆö frontend ``README.md``, ``CLAUDE.md``,
  ``CONTRIBUTING.md``; the backend ``docs/source/contributing/`` RSTs;
  and 15 frontend Sphinx RSTs (``overview/``, ``contributing/``,
  ``editor/``, ``reference/``, ``webapp/``). Stale "this package is
  deprecated and will be removed" warnings are gone too.
- **Documentation polish (separate from the rename).** Tightened the
  backend's ``README.md``, ``CONTRIBUTING.md``, ``DEVELOPMENT_SETUP.md``,
  and ``CLAUDE.md`` in three small ways: the repository URL is now the
  canonical Title-Case ``BESSER-Web-Modeling-Editor`` (GitHub still
  redirects the old all-caps form, but the new form is what we ship);
  the Node version requirement in the backend ``CONTRIBUTING.md`` is now
  ``Node.js 20+`` to match the frontend repo's CI matrix; and
  ``docker-compose`` (Compose v1 syntax) is replaced with the v2 form
  ``docker compose`` in setup instructions.

Compatibility
-------------

* No public API change. The published ``@besser/wme`` npm package
  (the editor) is untouched; only the internal monorepo workspace name
  changed.
* No metamodel, generator, or backend API change.
* Anyone who scripted ``npm run *:webapp2`` against this monorepo will
  need to switch to ``npm run *:webapp``. ``npm run dev``, ``npm run
  build``, ``npm run test``, and ``npm run lint`` continue to work
  unchanged ŌĆö they were already aliases that covered both names.

Testing
-------

* Frontend: ``npm run build`` produces ``build/webapp/`` and
  ``build/server/`` cleanly under the renamed workspace.
* Frontend: 55 perspective unit tests (``project.test.ts``,
  ``HiddenPerspectivesBanner.test.tsx``, ``ProjectSettingsPanel.test.tsx``,
  ``WorkspaceSidebar.test.tsx``) green.
* Backend: no Python code changed; the existing test suite still applies.
