Version 7.8.3
=============

Patch release: **agent transitions no longer collapse to**
``when_no_intent_matched`` **when a personalized agent project is imported**,
and free-hand edits to a personalized variant are no longer discarded when
switching between the base and a variant. This is a **frontend-only** release —
no metamodel, generator, or backend API changes; the only backend-repo change is
the web-modeling-editor submodule pointer bump (frontend PR
`#139 <https://github.com/BESSER-PEARL/BESSER-Web-Modeling-Editor/pull/139>`_,
thanks to Aaron).

Fixes
-----

* **Imported agent base models flattened every transition**: agent transitions
  exist in two JSON shapes — a legacy *flat* shape (top-level ``condition`` /
  ``conditionValue``) and the canonical *nested* shape (``transitionType`` plus
  ``predefined`` / ``custom`` blocks). The Apollon editor upgrades flat to nested
  whenever a diagram is loaded, but the ``agentBaseModels`` snapshot bundled in an
  imported project (e.g. the *Personalized Gym Agent* template) was written
  straight to ``localStorage`` in the flat shape, bypassing that upgrade. The
  backend agent processor only understands the nested shape, so on Save & Apply it
  defaulted every flat transition to ``when_no_intent_matched`` — silently
  destroying the agent's routing. The fix normalizes agent models to the canonical
  nested shape at the single storage write boundary (reusing the editor's own
  ``AgentStateTransition`` serializer rather than a second mapper), so the flat
  shape can no longer be persisted. A one-time ``v3 → v4`` storage migration
  upgrades snapshots already sitting in users' ``localStorage`` from before the
  fix, and the legacy flat shape is purged from the bundled project and agent
  templates at rest.

* **Variant edits lost on base ⇄ variant switch**: switching between the
  un-personalized base and a personalized variant replaced the live diagram with
  the stored snapshot without first writing back the current canvas edits, so any
  unsaved change made while viewing a variant (or the base) was discarded on
  switch. The switch handler now persists the live model back into its source —
  the active variant's inline snapshot, or the stored base model — before loading
  the target.

* **BAF generation now ships the un-personalized base**: generating with
  "Personalization (all)" previously shipped whichever variant happened to be
  active in the editor as the primary model, so every other variant was layered on
  top of that variant instead of the original base. Generation now injects the
  stored un-personalized base model; "None" mode is unchanged.

Tests
-----

* Frontend unit tests cover the agent-model normalizer (flat → nested across each
  predefined condition type, idempotency, geometry preservation,
  ``AgentStateTransitionInit`` left untouched) and the storage normalization path
  (``saveAgentBaseModel`` and the ``v4`` migration).
