Version 7.8.0
=============

Minor release headlined by **agent reasoning state support** and
**multi-LLM configuration** in the BAF (BESSER Agent Framework) code
generator.  It adds new agent metamodel classes (``ReasoningState``,
``Tool``, ``Skill``, ``Workspace``) and multi-LLM factory methods on
``Agent`` (``new_llm``, ``set_default_llm``, ``new_tool``, ``new_skill``,
``new_workspace``, ``new_reasoning_state``), surfaced through the BAF
generator template, the agent-model code builder, and the JSON↔B-UML
converters.

Agent Reasoning State and Multi-LLM Support
--------------------------------------------------

BAF Generator — multi-LLM handling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Introduced a unified ``default_llm`` variable in generated agent code,
  replacing the previous ``reply_llm`` approach.  The variable is set
  dynamically from the agent configuration or the first available LLM;
  if no LLM is configured it is set to ``None`` so that a clear
  ``AttributeError`` is raised at runtime rather than producing a silent
  no-op.
* All LLM invocations (``DBReply``, ``LLMReply``, intent-classifier, and
  fallback actions) now resolve the LLM **by name** at runtime, falling
  back to ``default_llm`` when no explicit override is provided.  This
  makes it straightforward to run different actions against different
  models in the same agent.
* The intent-classifier LLM selection uses a prioritised search across
  the per-classifier config and the agent-level defaults, ensuring
  consistent fallback behaviour when the classifier does not declare its
  own model.

RAG improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) configurations now resolve their
  LLM at runtime via ``llm_name``, falling back to ``default_llm`` when
  not explicitly set.  The separate ``rag_llm`` variable that previously
  appeared in generated code is no longer emitted, reducing boilerplate
  and potential inconsistencies.

Tools, Skills, and Workspaces
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Generated agent initialisation code now registers agent **tools**,
  **skills**, and **workspaces** with the agent instance, completing the
  round-trip from B-UML agent model to runnable BAF code for these
  component types.

Reasoning State support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Added code generation for ``ReasoningState`` objects: the generator
  detects reasoning states in the agent model and emits a
  ``new_reasoning_state(...)`` call with the appropriate LLM reference
  (falling back to ``default_llm``) and configuration
  (``max_steps``, ``enable_task_planning``, ``stream_steps``,
  ``system_prompt``, ``fallback_message``).

Internal refactoring
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Updated imports in ``besser/utilities/buml_code_builder/agent_model_builder.py``
  to include ``ReasoningState``, ``Tool``, ``Skill``, and ``Workspace``
  as well as the helper functions required by the new generation logic.
* The BAF generator template (``besser/generators/agents/templates/``)
  has been refactored for improved modularity, readability, and
  extensibility.

