Version 7.9.0
=============

Minor release headlined by **new agent action types** and **BAF generator
enhancements**.  It adds ``LLMChatReply`` and ``WebCrawlLLMReply`` actions,
nine ``WebSocketReply*`` action classes for rich-media replies, a new
``llm_prompt`` parameter on ``RAG``, and generator improvements including
pre-rendered YAML config injection, automatic ``tools.py`` generation, and
per-skill Markdown file output.

New Action Types
----------------

LLMChatReply
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* New ``LLMChatReply`` action sends a chat-style reply using an LLM.  Unlike
  ``LLMReply``, it invokes ``llm.chat(...)`` with the conversation history,
  making it appropriate for multi-turn dialogue states.
* Accepts an optional ``prompt`` (system prompt injected into the call) and
  an optional ``llm_name`` to target a specific registered LLM; falls back
  to the agent's default LLM when not set.

.. code-block:: python

    from besser.BUML.metamodel.state_machine.agent import LLMChatReply

    my_state.set_body(Body('chat_body', [LLMChatReply(prompt='Be concise.')]))

WebCrawlLLMReply
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* New ``WebCrawlLLMReply`` action performs a BFS web crawl starting at
  ``initial_url`` and queries an LLM with the retrieved content.
* The crawl result is cached in the agent session under the key
  ``f"web_crawl_{initial_url}"``; set ``run_crawl=False`` in subsequent
  states to reuse the cached content without re-fetching.
* Configurable via ``max_depth``, ``max_pages``, ``crawl_format``
  (``"markdown"`` or ``"html"``), ``base_url_prefix``, ``system_message_prefix``,
  ``no_crawl_error_message``, and ``llm_name``.

.. code-block:: python

    from besser.BUML.metamodel.state_machine.agent import WebCrawlLLMReply

    crawl_state.set_body(Body('crawl_body', [
        WebCrawlLLMReply(
            initial_url='https://example.com/docs',
            max_depth=2,
            max_pages=20,
            crawl_format='markdown',
            run_crawl=True,
        )
    ]))

WebSocket reply actions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Nine new action classes map directly to the ``WebSocketPlatform`` rich-media
reply methods, letting you model structured replies in the B-UML agent
diagram without writing custom body code:

+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| Class                            | Mapped platform method                        |
+==================================+===============================================+
| ``WebSocketReplyMarkdown``       | ``platform.reply_markdown(message)``          |
+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| ``WebSocketReplyHTML``           | ``platform.reply_html(message)``              |
+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| ``WebSocketReplySpeech``         | ``platform.reply_speech(message, speed)``     |
+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| ``WebSocketReplyOptions``        | ``platform.reply_options(options)``           |
+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| ``WebSocketReplyLocation``       | ``platform.reply_location(lat, lon)``         |
+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| ``WebSocketReplyFile``           | ``platform.reply_file(file)``                 |
+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| ``WebSocketReplyImage``          | ``platform.reply_image(image)``               |
+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| ``WebSocketReplyDataframe``      | ``platform.reply_dataframe(df)``              |
+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| ``WebSocketReplyPlotly``         | ``platform.reply_plotly(fig)``                |
+----------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+

.. note::

    ``WebSocketReplyFile``, ``WebSocketReplyImage``, ``WebSocketReplyDataframe``,
    and ``WebSocketReplyPlotly`` generate stub code that requires the developer
    to supply the runtime object (``File``, NumPy ``ndarray``, pandas
    ``DataFrame``, or Plotly ``Figure`` respectively) inside the body.

RAG Enhancement
---------------

* ``RAG`` now accepts an optional ``llm_prompt`` parameter — a string of
  prefix instructions injected before each RAG prompt at generation time.
  This allows agents to enforce domain-specific constraints or tone guidelines
  on every RAG query without modifying the user-facing question.
* ``Agent.new_rag()`` forwards ``llm_prompt`` transparently to the ``RAG``
  constructor.

.. code-block:: python

    kb = agent.new_rag(
        name='Knowledge Base',
        vector_store=vector_store,
        splitter=splitter,
        llm_name='gpt-4o-mini',
        llm_prompt='Answer only from the provided documents.',
    )

BAF Generator Enhancements
---------------------------

Pre-rendered YAML config injection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ``BAFGenerator`` now accepts a ``config_yaml`` parameter.  When provided,
  its value is written verbatim to ``config.yaml`` instead of rendering the
  config from the agent model's ``ConfigProperty`` list.  This is useful when
  the caller has already serialised a YAML configuration (e.g., from the web
  editor) and wants to preserve it exactly.

tools.py generation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* When the agent model contains one or more ``Tool`` objects, the generator
  now emits a ``tools.py`` file in the output directory containing the
  Python implementation of every tool function.  This separates tool
  definitions from the main agent script and makes them easier to edit and
  test independently.

skills/ directory generation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* When the agent model contains one or more ``Skill`` objects, the generator
  creates a ``skills/`` subdirectory and writes one Markdown file per skill
  (``<skill_name>.md``) containing the skill's ``content`` field.  Reasoning
  states load skill instructions from these files at runtime.

Web Modeling Editor
-------------------

The agent diagram editor gains a major UX expansion that surfaces the new
action types and reasoning capabilities directly in the visual editor:

* **New state and action types**: reasoning states (modelled as an
  ``AgentState`` with ``stateType: "reasoning"``), plus ``LLM Chat``,
  ``Web Crawl + LLM`` and the nine WebSocket reply actions, each with a
  dedicated configuration panel. A state can now hold multiple ordered action
  bodies, reorderable by drag-and-drop, with a configurable fallback-body
  toggle.
* **RAG configuration**: the RAG element exposes the new ``llm_prompt``, ``k``
  and ``num_previous_messages`` fields, and RAG reply actions accept an
  optional per-action prompt.
* **config.yaml editor**: a CodeMirror-based editor authors the agent
  ``config.yaml`` directly in the tool — a structured form view plus a
  free-text custom-YAML block — and ships it to the ``BAFGenerator`` through
  the new ``config_yaml`` parameter. Tool bodies and custom-code actions are
  edited with syntax-highlighted CodeMirror editors.
* **Validation and polish**: warnings for WebSocket/LLM/reasoning primitives
  when a required platform, LLM, or reasoning state is missing, and palette
  label truncation to prevent layout overflow.
* **Transition normalization** (#139): agent transitions are always stored in
  the canonical nested shape and normalized at the storage boundary, so models
  that bypass the editor round-trip through the backend cleanly.

Auto-layout and headless SVG export
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* **ELK-based auto-layout**: a one-click auto-layout (powered by the Eclipse
  Layout Kernel) re-arranges any diagram, exposed both as
  ``ApollonEditor.autoLayout()`` and as an auto-layout button in the editor's
  zoom control box.
* **Headless SVG export pipeline**: a new ``POST /besser_api/get-svg`` backend
  endpoint converts a B-UML model to the editor JSON model and renders it to
  SVG by delegating to the editor server's new ``POST /api/svg`` route, which
  draws the diagram headlessly (jsdom + Apollon) with ELK auto-layout enabled
  by default — a browser-free B-UML → SVG rendering path.

Follow-up correctness fixes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The ``buml_to_json`` converter now emits reasoning states as an
  ``AgentState`` carrying ``stateType: "reasoning"`` instead of the legacy
  ``AgentReasoningState`` element type (which the editor no longer registers),
  so exported reasoning states round-trip without failing to deserialize on
  import.
* Fixed a crash when dragging an action card between the body and fallback
  lists, hardened ``config.yaml`` scalar quoting so secrets containing
  YAML-significant characters cannot corrupt the generated config, and
  normalized personalization variant models to the canonical transition shape
  before generation.

Internal updates
----------------

* ``besser/utilities/buml_code_builder/agent_model_builder.py`` updated to
  handle the new action types in the agent-model-to-code conversion.
* ``besser/utilities/web_modeling_editor/backend/services/converters/buml_to_json/agent_diagram_converter.py``
  extended to serialise the new action classes to the frontend JSON format.
* ``besser/utilities/web_modeling_editor/backend/routers/generation_router.py``
  updated to pass ``config_yaml`` through the generation pipeline.
